---
layout: post
title:  "Week one review"
date:   2015-09-21
categories: about
author: Peter Wilkins
image: aclogo.png
permalink: Week one review
---

At the end of week one I feel elated at the amount and quality of information and tools we have learned.

So what was hot and what was not?

###Setting up the LAMP server environment
* HOT: Vagrant and virtual box and a setup that 'just works'
* NOT: installing three kinds of mysql on my mac and watching them fight over the mysqld.pid file.

###Working with Intergrated developement environments
- HOT: Playing [vim snake](http://www.vimsnake.com/) and [vim adventure](http://vim-adventures.com/)
- NOT: Switching IDE every 5 minutes whenever I hit a roadblock. Just pick one and learn it Peter.

###Development environment set up
+ HOT: Homebrew and npm, infact any package manager that works!
+ NOT: Oracles mysql installer, can't copy text from itunes podcast descriptions (#really!?)

###Working with the Command Line
* HOT: CodeAcademy's command line tutorial, customising my bash prompt with pretty colors and github current branch.
* NOT: Nothing (gui's are stoopid)

###Information Governance
- HOT: Paula
- NOT: Leaving your laptop on a train.

###Covering the databases
+ HOT: muffled snickers everytime someone says 'INSERT INTO people'
+ NOT: deleting your whole database with DELETE *

###Create a Blog using Jekyll and Github pages
* HOT: Getting a blog setup in about 15 minutes and using git for something real.
* NOT: Treehouses tutorial on jekyll - could do with an overview of the subject. Plus it was friday afternoon and I was probably suffering from [Smoke Stack](http://grillstock.co.uk/blogs/archives/tag/smokestack-burger/) Overflow.
